DOCSP-30506 Async and Sync Runtimes (#54)
mongodb/docs-rust: source/fundamentals/runtimes.txt

.. _rust-runtimes:

=====================================
Asynchronous and Synchronous Runtimes
=====================================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn about the {+driver-short+}'s :ref:`asynchronous <rust-runtimes-configure-async>`
and :ref:`synchronous <rust-runtimes-configure-sync>` runtimes.
This guide explains how to enable the available runtimes and structure your code to use each API.

The {+driver-short+} supports ``tokio`` and ``async-std``, two popular asynchronous runtime crates.
By default, the driver uses the ``tokio`` asynchronous runtime, but you can select a runtime
by adding feature flags to your ``mongodb`` dependency in your ``Cargo.toml`` file.

> The driver also includes a synchronous API for simplicity, or when parallelism is not necessary.

Reviewer: S: in this sentence, describe both sync runtime feature flags as you did in the paragraph describing the async ones.

.. _rust-runtimes-configure-async:

Configure the Asynchronous Runtime
----------------------------------

The driver uses the ``tokio`` runtime by default.

> You can explicitly choose a runtime by specifying either the ``tokio-runtime`` or ``async-std-runtime`` feature flag in your ``Cargo.toml``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can explicitly choose a runtime by specifying adding the ``"tokio-runtime"`` or ``"async-std-runtime"``
feature flags to your ``mongodb`` dependency.
```

Select from the following tabs to see how to add feature flags for each corresponding crate:

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: tokio
      :tabid: asynchronous-api-tokio

      .. code-block:: toml

         [dependencies.mongodb]
         version = "{+version+}"
         features = ["tokio-runtime"]

   .. tab:: async-std
      :tabid: asynchronous-api-async-std

      .. code-block:: toml

         [dependencies.mongodb]
         version = "{+version+}"
         default-features = false
         features = ["async-std"]

For more information on installing both the driver and runtimes, see :ref:`rust-quick-start-download-and-install`.

Tokio Runtime Example
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following code uses the ``task`` module from the ``tokio`` crate
to create separate, concurrent tasks for multiple data operations:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/runtimes-tokio.rs
   :language: rust
   :dedent:

.. _rust-runtimes-configure-sync:

Configure the Synchronous Runtime
---------------------------------

The driver also provides a blocking, synchronous API.

> To enable this, add the ``sync`` or ``tokio-sync`` feature to your ``Cargo.toml``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the synchronous runtime, add the either the ``"sync"`` or ``"tokio-sync"`` feature flag
to your ``mongodb`` dependency.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select from the following tabs to see how to add feature flags for each corresponding crate:
```

.. code-block:: toml

   [dependencies.mongodb]
   version = "{+version+}"
   default-features = false
   features = ["sync"]

> 

Reviewer: S: add tabs here to show both sync runtimes

Synchronous Code Example
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When using the synchronous runtime, use types from the ``mongodb::sync`` module to perform operations.
The synchronous API calls through to the asynchronous API internally,
so you can use ``sync`` types as you might use types from the asynchronous API.

The following code uses the ``sync`` module to insert data into a collection using the synchronous API.

> When the ``insert_one`` method runs inside the ``for`` loop, the driver waits for each request to complete before continuing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the ``insert_one`` method runs inside the ``for`` loop, the driver waits for each request to complete before continuing on to the next operation.
```

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/runtimes-sync.rs
   :language: rust
   :dedent:

Use Both Asynchronous and Synchronous APIs
------------------------------------------

You can use both asynchronous and synchronous APIs in the same application.

> For example, to enable both ``tokio` runtimes, you can add the ``tokio`` dependency to your dependencies list and add the
> ``"tokio-sync"`` flag to your ``mongodb`` dependency:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to enable both ``tokio`` runtimes, you can add the ``tokio`` dependency to your dependencies list and add the
``"tokio-sync"`` flag to your ``mongodb`` dependency:
```

.. _rust-runtimes:

===============================================

> Configure Asynchronous and Synchronous Runtimes

Author: Thanks, @isabelatkinson ! That makes sense. I like "Async and Synch APIs" as a title. I'll look through the doc an make some adjustments, then tag you again. :)

> ===============================================

Reviewer: S: I think the title was fine before, only the link text in the fundamentals section needed to be changed. Feel free to change this back, if you prefer.

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn about the {+driver-short+}'s :ref:`asynchronous <rust-runtimes-configure-async>`
and :ref:`synchronous <rust-runtimes-configure-sync>` runtimes.
This guide explains how to enable the available runtimes and structure your code to use each API.

The {+driver-short+} supports ``tokio`` and ``async-std``, two popular asynchronous runtime crates.

> By default, the driver uses the ``tokio`` asynchronous runtime, but you can select a runtime
> by adding feature flags to the ``mongodb`` dependency in your ``Cargo.toml`` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the driver uses the ``tokio`` asynchronous runtime, but you can select a specific runtime
by adding feature flags to the ``mongodb`` dependency in your ``Cargo.toml`` file.
```

The driver also includes a synchronous API for use cases that require blocking, or when parallelism is not necessary.
You can select a synchronous runtime by adding feature flags to the ``mongodb`` dependency in your ``Cargo.toml`` file.

.. _rust-runtimes-configure-async:

Configure the Asynchronous Runtime
----------------------------------

The driver uses the ``tokio`` runtime by default.

> You can explicitly choose a runtime by specifying adding the ``"tokio-runtime"`` or ``"async-std-runtime"``
> feature flags to the ``mongodb`` dependency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can explicitly choose a runtime by adding the ``"tokio-runtime"`` or ``"async-std-runtime"``
feature flags to the ``mongodb`` dependency.
```
